The Joe Rogan experience. In.
Theory, because that map is so regular across cultures.
He's looked now in China, in Chinese speaking people in English,
speaking people and people who have a second language,
he's even had some interesting data about people who have up speak that really.
Annoying. Oh, I hate that. Yeah. That's a lot near where you live.
That's a San Francisco tech thing, is it? Yeah. It's like,
what they're doing is letting you know that they're one of the tribe. Okay. And,
uh, we're all in this together. And I think like you do,
and you can trust me because I'm an original.
Well, it might reflect a subtle brain damage.
I think the data show that it's a distortion of the, of the regular map.
I think it's the same thing as a Southern accent.
I think you're just fitting in with your environment.
Cause I know people that have adopted that once they've gotten into the tech
world and like, Hey, face, you didn't use to talk like that. Or the.
People that go to England and start speaking with a brochure.
And Madonna. Oh, did she do that? I don't know. Pop culture carefully.
Yes she did. Yeah. I'm moving to Texas.
I'm going to start saying y'all two weeks in. I'm giving myself two weeks.
So I'm gonna try out y'all.
Some of this stuff is learned. Are you moving? Oh, you are.
I've heard rumors of that, but I guess, okay. I'm sorry to hear.
Sorry for California. Um, congratulations, Texas. Um, they're, you know,
these maps have some regularities across people because when we're born into the
world, you know, we are not a completely clean slate.
There's a kind of a map that expects the world,
including language to be a certain way.
And we can't expect that we're going to be born in China or born in France or
born in California or Northern California for that matter.
So the map is what we call semi malleable.
It's not a rigid concrete hardwired map. So what makes.
You think that this ups speak is like damage?
Well, so I asked Eddie about this, um, Eddie Chang, my friend,
this neurosurgeon who has, you know, kind of premiere world, not kind of,
he is the world expert on speech and language and the neural transformations and
how it controls the pharynx, all that stuff. And I said,
what's with the up speak thing. He said, yeah, you know, we see that sometimes.
And I'm concerned about that. And when a neurosurgeon tells you their concern,
you kind of go, okay, what are you concerned about? He goes,
there's something wrong with the map and this is kind to get this, you know,
so maybe that's, uh, you know, it could be because of upbringing and people, uh,
you know, the brain is plastic as adults too, and I'm not in the same way,
it's plastic in childhood. But you know,
if you are forced to learn another language, your blood,
your brain will fundamentally shift. Neuroplasticity is a real thing.
And I think, uh, it's interesting,
you raise this kind of cultural component because actually it was Eddie's, uh,
advisor, a guy named Mike Merzenich was really the one who discovered adult
neuroplasticity, you know,
in the seventies and eighties and my actual scientific great grandparents,
David Hubel and Torsten Wiesel won the Nobel prize for showing their critical
periods, these periods of development, after which the brain can not change.
And they had important implications for amblyopia and I stuff MERS.
And it came along and said, you know what? I don't buy that.
And he started doing experiments with his students and post-docs where they
would create an S an essential need or contingency.
Like if the animal doesn't eat, unless it learns something,
then the brain can change.
If you break down learning events into is kind of smaller, more focused events.
The brain can change as an adult at essentially any age.
And so the strongest drive for adult neuroplasticity
is focus. It's the ability to say, this is really important.
It's making a soda straw view of the world.
It's almost like being in a state of stress and the best way to do that
for a young person in adolescence,
or maybe even older is the social pressures. If they're strong,
they will shape and rewire the brain. I mean,
I look at what's happening in the world right now.
And I think we are in a state of immense neuroplasticity.
Everybody is having to rewire their understanding what's going on.
So just to sort of, um, put up, you know,
kind of a bowl of some sort on the speech and language thing,
I don't think brain machine interface is going to be all about dry stick and
chips.
But still let's get back to the up speak thing. Why does he think it's damaged?
Like, what is, what is it about ups speak?
Well, he, he just thinks that the map would shows up kind of normally in,
in most, this is probably the first time in human history.
People have used this up speak. It's also the first time in human history,
people have typed with their thumbs.
I was listening to two guys at the airport back when you can go to the airport.
And these two guys at the airport, we're talking in ups, beak. And I,
it was like, as clear as day to me, like they were letting each other,
know that they're in the tribe. And, uh, you know,
I remember Jamie had a tech problem once and he was on the phone with this lady
who was doing up speak when she was talking to him.
And we both looked at each other like, oh, yuck.
Kind of create a kind of visceral, like, like nauseous.
I can't trust those people.
I can't trust someone who talks like that because I know you're on original.
Like you not, not what not.
Most of us are clearly at least mostly influenced by the people around
us. But it's not just that. It's like,
you've changed how you talk to fit in with this.
There's a tech world. There's tech language, that's tech speak,
it's English, but it's tech speak English. It's letting you know.
And there does seem to be a body, wants to spinal extensors. Trust them.
I don't trust them. I think they're sneaky.
Well,
I'll try and get the data from I'll try and get the data from I'm being halfway.
Joking here. If you're like a ups speed person, like, Hey man,
I've always loved your show, but then you said you don't trust people to talk,
like meet joking, but also stop doing that.
Stop doing that. I know what you're doing.
I think, um,
I think Eddie would say that there's some distortion in the way they're using
this map, but.
It start, I think it started with one really smart person.
Who's a little autistic who talked like that because they were trying to keep it
together. And then everyone else was like, I want to be as smart as John.
And then they started talking like that. And then it became a thing,
sort of like accents. Like th I grew up in Boston, right.
They talk in a weird way. And I,
I picked it up and then one time I heard myself on television.
I heard myself talk like that when I was 19, I was like, oh my God,
I sound like a idiot. What is wrong with me? Like,
cause I had only lived there at that time for like six years,
but I adopted it whole hog. And I was like, what? What's wrong with me? Like,
why am I, I wanted to fit in. That's what it was.
I I'd moved there when I was 13 and I tried to fit in.
And so I had adopted the speech pattern. I didn't realize it until I heard it.
Like, you, you listen to a tape of yourself,
you actually find out what you really sound like, you know, like, yeah,